Linux ships with Python installed, so the goal of this page is to make sure you can start a terminal and run Python from the command line. 

<ol>
<li>Start up a Terminal. You can find the Terminal application at Applications/Accessories/Terminal, or it may already be on your menu bar.<br />

<br />
This Terminal contains something called a command prompt. This command prompt is another way of navigating your computer and running programs -- just textually instead of graphically. We are going to be running Python and Python scripts from this command prompt.
</li>
<li>Test your Python install at the command prompt. Type

<pre>
python
</pre>

and hit enter. You should see something like
<pre>
Python 2.7.1 (r252:60911, Jan 24 2011, 17:44:40) 
[GCC 4.3.2] on linux2
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> 
</pre>
</li>

* You just started Python! The <code>>>></code> indicates that you are at a new type of prompt -- a Python prompt. The command prompt let's you navigate your computer and run programs, and the Python prompt lets you write and run Python code interactively.<br />

* If the Python version number (2.7.1 in the example above) is not a number between 2.4 and 2.7 (ignoring the number after the second dot), tell a staff member.
</li>
<li>To exit the Python prompt, type

<pre>
exit()
</pre>

and press Enter. This will take you back to the Linux command prompt.</li>
</ol>

You might need to install a package called python-tk.

'''Success!''' 

You have tested your Python installation.

[[Morning laptop setup|&laquo; Back to morning laptop setup]]
