= Logistics = 
'''Thank you for signing up for the PyData Workshop and Sprint with Chang She !'''
This wiki page contains a few logistics notes you'll need to know to make the best of the workshop, and help it run as smoothly as possible.

== What to bring ==

We expect you to bring yourself and a laptop computer, with a compatible network card, that can enable you to connect to a wi-fi network. Your machine can be running Windows, Mac OS, or a Linux distribution of your choice. If it runs something else, that's cool, but you might run into issues with the workshop.
It is important that you bring a computer you can program on, rather than just a tablet or mobile phone.

=== Planning for food === 

We plan to provide lunch, thanks to the [http://pythonsprints.com/ Python Software Foundation] sponsorship! 

== Laptop setup ==

Getting your computer configured to contribute to Pandas can be time-consuming, so we wrote a guide that you can work through. 
You can find it here:

[https://github.com/svaksha/PyData-Workshop-Sprint/wiki/laptop-setup https://github.com/svaksha/PyData-Workshop-Sprint/wiki/laptop-setup]

We strongly encourage you to work through it before the event. If you are having any trouble, we can help out! '''Please come a little early, by 9:40 am, to the venue so that one of the volunteers will be able to assist and work with you'''.

== Venue ==

The location is:
* Pivotal Labs (8th floor), 841 Broadway New York, NY. [https://maps.google.com/maps?q=841+Broadway+New+York,+NY,+New+York,+NY  Google-map link]

* Date: Sunday, December 16th.

* Arrive at '''09:40AM EST''' for [https://github.com/svaksha/PyData-Workshop-Sprint/wiki/laptop%20setup laptop setup], or '''10 AM for general meet&greet'''.

* A detailed schedule with a timeline is outlined in the [https://github.com/svaksha/PyData-Workshop-Sprint/wiki/2012-NYC#wiki-WorkshopSprint_format_and_Timeline Workshop-Sprint format] section.

=== Exit Survey === 
Your feedback is important to us, so after the workshop and sprint concludes, we'll send you an exit survey. Please take some time out to share your thoughts.

See you on Sunday!